add create new company tutorial (#2257)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/console/tutorials/configure-new-company.md

---
id: configure-new-company
title: Configure a New Company
sidebar_label: Configure a New Company
---

# How to: Configure a New Company

> ## Introduction

Reviewer: I suggest to add here or in a dedicated subsection (###) the needed prerequisites such as:

- You need a provisioned K8s cluster following our requirements (https://docs.mia-platform.eu/docs/infrastructure/self-hosted/self-hosted-requirements#architectural-prerequisites) in this table for example is highlighted that we support a K8s version between 1.25 and 1.33. I know it is for self-hosted installations but it should be also valid for BYO

- You need a git provider with enough permissions to generate access tokens

....

Then for better clarity and readability I suggest to add some more nits about the scope of this tutorial. 
We are using a AKS cluster and Gitlab as Secret / Git / CICD provider. 
The configuration process can change in some phases for other providers or cluster type.
Moreover I would be more specific about the context of the tutorial: we are in a BYOI situation, configuring a company on a self-hosted console may be different and creating a new company on PaaS should require a ticket to us.

Reviewer: Edit: the prerequisites are in the specific paragraphs, I think it's probably better to have them at the beginning.

Configuring a **Company** is the initial process required to set up the platform's operational foundation. A Company acts as an isolated tenant that serves as the root for governance, representing your organization or a specific business unit. Within it, all centralized resources (such as infrastructure, tools and standards) are defined to enable development teams to operate autonomously, quickly and securely.

Before any project can be created or deployed, this initial setup must be completed. It consists of four sequential phases:

1.  **Configure Cluster**: Connect the Kubernetes infrastructure that will host the applications.
2.  **Configure Providers**: Integrate external tools for code, secret and pipeline management.
3.  **Configure Environments**: Define logical deployment destinations (e.g., Development, Production).
4.  **Configure Blueprints**: Standardize the creation of new projects through pre-configured templates.

> This tutorial guides the user through each phase to make the Company fully operational. For an overview of the Console's architecture, you can consult the [general overview](https://docs.mia-platform.eu/docs/console/overview).

Reviewer: we should use the internal link I think:

```suggestion
This tutorial guides the user through each phase to make the Company fully operational. For an overview of the Console's architecture, you can consult the [general overview](/console/overview.md).
```

I don't know if this path is correct

![New cluster connection wizard, Advanced step.](./img/tutorial-configure-new-company/configure-cluster-5.png)

Upon completion, the Console will attempt to establish a connection with the cluster. If the provided parameters are correct, a success message will confirm that the connection is active. Should any issues arise during this validation, such as incorrect credentials or network problems, a descriptive error message will be shown, allowing you to go back and adjust the configuration accordingly.

![Success message confirming the cluster connection.](./img/tutorial-configure-new-company/configure-cluster-6.png)

You will be redirected to the cluster's detail page, where you can view a summary of the configuration. For more details on cluster management, refer to the [official documentation](/console/company-configuration/clusters-management/connect-and-manage-cluster.mdx).

![Cluster details page showing the summary of the new connection.](./img/tutorial-configure-new-company/configure-cluster-7.png)

---

## Step 2: Configure Providers

> The next step is to configure **Providers**: connections to external services essential for the software lifecycle, such as Git providers, secret managers, or CI/CD tools.

Reviewer: Add here a link to the provider docs.

![New provider connection wizard, Advanced step.](./img/tutorial-configure-new-company/configure-provider-7.png)

A success message will confirm the creation.

![Success message confirming the provider connection.](./img/tutorial-configure-new-company/configure-provider-8.png)

You will be redirected to the provider's detail page, where you can review its configuration. For more details on supported providers and their specific configurations, you can consult the [official documentation](/console/company-configuration/providers/overview.md).

![Provider details page showing the summary of the new connection.](./img/tutorial-configure-new-company/configure-provider-9.png)

### Define Default Providers

Once configured, define the providers as **default** for the Company. They will be automatically pre-selected when creating new projects.

![Providers page showing the section to define default providers.](./img/tutorial-configure-new-company/configure-provider-10.png)

Click **Set default Git Provider**, select the desired provider and save.

![Modal to set the default Git Provider.](./img/tutorial-configure-new-company/configure-provider-11.png)

> Repeat the process for the other capabilities, such as **Secret Manager** and **CI/CD Tool**. For more details, consult the [Providers documentation](/console/company-configuration/providers/configure-provider.mdx#set-a-default-provider).

Reviewer: It could be better to repeat it at the begging. 
For newbies the term "provider" can be misleading.
